I do have one topic we could warm up with before we start. Oh, did you see the populous chip the populous?
It's 3d
VR for everyone for only
$49 that's my kind of price. I can't I can't really I can't really I can't I just you know what?
I can't and by the way this picture headset not included some 3d printing required
Yeah, so there's a there's a picture of the pocket because backed up to this thing and there's even a video although
This combined emulator package so that we can get virtual boy running on
So you're familiar with the pocket chip device, right?
Things awesome. Yeah, and then they came up with a 3d printed VR headset that goes over the pocket chip screen and
Yeah
This is awesome virtual boy games in 3d
This look at that. It's actually kind of cool. It's kind of cool. I
Don't know that I'm about to buy one
Make one but it is cool
You know if I had the pocket I might that if I had the pocket you think that is actually so cool
Do you remember how red it was? Yeah, I know. Oh man, bring back the real the original VR. It's 3d
It actually is
It's amazing. Yeah, there's like 30 virtual board games. Yeah, that's water world Kevin Costner's water world
I haven't thought about water world for ages
This is Linux unplugged episode
154 for July 19th
Oh
Welcome to Linux unplugged your weekly Linux talk show that's on the ground and reporting from the Linux trenches
My name is Chris. My name is Wes. Hello, Wes and Losa big show today for 154
It's something we do just for all 154 additions of our podcast. We just do big shows. That's what we do
It's huge tradition coming up on this week's episode of the show. There's a big big release coming out for Linux
We'll give you the details on that. It was actually crowdfunded, which is pretty neat
I've got some follow-up on some stories we covered last week
There's some shenanigans going on that I think may just tip snaps over the top. Yeah, we'll tell you about that why snaps wolf
dominate
Then later up later on the show
I'm gonna do a little follow-up on
My VPN efforts what I landed on and then we'll get into a discussion about self hosting
Oh and
It's actually kind of an interesting discussion because it West has a little angle on there that we'll talk about as well
And then later on in the show towards the end. I think this one will probably get the virtual log going the most
Do you use the Linux desktop for idealistic or practical reasons and what brought you here and what keeps you?
We'll talk about that coming up towards the end of the show
But before all of that stuff we got a bunch of open-source
Project updates to get into like we do and every single on plug show lots of stuff and projects
We're following every single week that we want to tell you about news items things that impact Linux users things that our virtual lug
Could dig into so why don't we start there speaking of that? Let's bring in that log time appropriate greetings virtual look
I
Hello it is good to see you so let's start with a story that's been grabbing attention all week long
I didn't cover it in laughs, but I thought you know by now everybody seen it. It's the elephant in the room
Microsoft is blocking Linux installations on old hardware
So Wes if I'm grokking this story correctly
An update went out to the now essentially defunct Windows RT that closed
Essentially a backdoor that you could use to install alternative operating systems on the Windows RT tablet
Am I am I following this? Yeah, that's what it sounds like so like on Microsoft's way out the door. They're like alright
Well, thanks for buying that hardware now that we're done with it install this update
And then you install that update and your host and you never have any fun again
And it was something Microsoft had known about the entire time
It was something they seemed to intentionally left had left open and then they're like ah see ya right
Thanks for all the it seems just what's the benefit to that?
I mean I could see them have done it at the first right that's what they were going to do
They're gonna be like hey lock it down not on our arm platforms. No. It's you know secure boot all the way
No key new keys, but when you're abandoning a platform when you're like yeah, sorry you made the wrong choice see ya
That seems like the last thing you should do is make it basically unusable for anything useful after that yeah
Um and I must have been I wonder if there was like an enterprise pressure or some some thing
That's like they're there. They were actually using that platform
Yeah, that's a great question. Are they gonna continue to support it so therefore they're trying to reduce the surface area of problems
Get it surface area problems, especially if this is like become more known or something you know where it's like well
We really can't maybe we're not meeting the contracts or like we said that this was a secure tablet or whatever
But like ww saying you you get the sense that
This is sort of Microsoft
Of yesteryear right ww
Yeah, kind of like hey, you know things for all the money
No, you get no support or or nothing on this or you know maybe maybe we'll support Linux
You know we got this as yours thing. You know yeah
I think what ww is saying there is why he got so much traction is hey what happened to heart in Linux exactly?
What happened to emoji heart?
What happened because really this just goes to block Linux?
I mean anything that's gonna be used at scale would be Linux installations and
The fact people talk about here that there is actually a couple of popular installations on RT
Tablets so I guess if you want to saw Linux on an RT tablet don't install the latest update yeah
which is sort of I I I
Don't feel like this one story is a clear indicator of a Microsoft as a whole's intention towards Linux
And it's not important enough of a platform to really reflect their core values probably right
You know what would you know would really you know would really sell it for me
What's that is it called the surface book that really crazy expensive? Yeah?
And I know this would never happen
But man you know it would shut me up immediately about Microsoft and how much they support Linux if they shipped a version of that
With Ubuntu LTS that would be crazy right and had maybe and let's just since it's Microsoft
We'll just give on a few things the web browsers pre-configured to use being yep
Oh naturally you got Skype for Linux installed. You can use the Etsy scale for that Chris
Also you have like Visual Studio code pre-installed
You know so you have like the Microsoft Linux tool sets preloaded ready to
Dev net right on your Ubuntu. Oh man, then I would be then I would be
Really like okay this clear indicator
I
Guess I'd like to hear from you many. What do you think you think this is an indicator of Microsoft's overall intention or perhaps?
This is just a bug fix gone wrong I
Mean you can't blame Microsoft for fixing a bug a big step would be to open the way few devices on these RT devices
So anyone who wants to install in this can install it, but just fix a bug is what Microsoft has to do oh
I kind of like land rashes theory though land rash go ahead you have a theory that maybe this is
Sort of a competitive move
Well, it's good practice not to have
Competition against your own product, and if you don't if you disable the ability to install Linux
I maybe people be more encouraged to buy newer hardware because they're not getting the same value wouldn't those just be pissed off customers
That just wouldn't buy another surface
Well, you'll have a few pissed off customers, but a lot of paying customers
Hmm yeah, okay, I guess that's better than none huh it's just such weird timing. Yeah, it's like if they've done it around
I don't know if they've done it earlier if they've done it from the start like they kind of said that they were going to
Yeah, you know API in the chat rooms pointed out
And we just did some coverage over the last couple episodes of tech snap there is a 20 year old printer spooler bug in Windows
That is exploitable remotely
And it's just it's really something and that is so that's we covered that in the last two weeks because it's a story that evolved
In tech snap and then the week before that we talked about a group policy disaster that no yeah
That was an interesting yeah, it turned off group policy Network. Why and he just Windows is
Yeah, it's time to ship up went to on that on that surface book so speaking of things that are shipping
Maybe this is why they are worried about Linux. There is a game
That you may have heard of you may even have you may even have fond memory memories of system shock
Which is a game that came out damn near?
I don't know 23 years ago now
It's a triple-a title and after two decades night dive studios is rebooting and reimagining the original system shock
with a new game that they say is true to the classic experience, and I've read some reviews to say it is and
I hadn't talked about this before because it was a Kickstarter
And it wasn't it was one of those where they sort of teased Linux support
Yeah, and they didn't promise Linux support. We've been burned there before yeah, and so here's a little bit of the Kickstarter
I'll play a little bit of this for you
So you kind of get a feel there they seem like a pretty fun bunch where it all began it says
I love to play outside with all the other children
until the incident
It was like night and day
after he started playing that
classic cyberpunk
horror video game system shock
he simply
lost touch with reality
So this is it's a really fun parody video and in it they say well
You know they talk about re reimagining this game
And they say how they talk they just talk and talk and talk about how much they love this old game
And they promised a Linux version if they got to a certain amount on the Linux community said great
Prove it. We're not just gonna. Maybe kick in and have you not reach your end goal so today
The guys behind system sock at shock and gals said alright. Well. We will prove it
We will ship a Linux demo to prove to you that we can hit the export button in unity and
Make a Linux version so they ship that today. I download it from gog.com. It's free. I think you can also get it on Steam and
It is freaking great, dude
So this is this is a video of the trailer here awesome. It is awesome
There's a very cool vibe to it mm-hmm and I
Tell you what the the game is so damn great that I think I'm gonna go back at the the project after
After the show so they're they're they're almost there now to get to get Linux support
They've proved that they can hit the export button, so I think that's probably worth backing them. Yeah, that's awesome
Yeah, they now here's what they say they said due to popular demand they put up the Linux demo
We're doing this before we hit the stretch goal as a gesture of good faith
But understand that the Linux demo does not guarantee a Linux version of the final game unless we hit the stretch goal
It took quite a bit of time to get all working on Linux as well as a bit of internal testing. I like that
Oh, oh a bit a bit of internal testing sounds like more than a bit
Launching on other platforms takes time to adequately support and deploy which is why we have a stretch goal, and it is vital
Okay, they also far away. Are we from that stretch goal right now?
They talk also by the way they talk about have you to have to install lib sdl2 for the audio to work correctly
I see let's see
If I recall something it's like they're like they're like 15,000 away from it right now or 16,000 away from it
But I don't they don't just come right out and say in the post how much money they need they have like this graphic here
You have to follow but from what the tech tree. Yeah from the breakdown
I have in fact, I think Liam has over on gaming on linux.com. He even breaks it down to he says
Yeah, I needed to get around 63,000 to hit the stretch goal and right now it is at us. Oh
Oh, it doesn't need another 63,000. That's what it needs another 63 thousands. There you go. Well Linux gamers out there
Yeah, see what we can do. Yeah, actually I think they're gonna make it
I think they hit a million so I think they're gonna make it now
So I think that's gonna be awesome
I look forward to it and the great thing about the demo is if you just want to play around it's free and it's hosted
Right up on the gog.com for direct download. Wow. Yeah, that is a very good good faith effort
It's nice after being burned by look at that. Look at that screenshot there West with the with the planetary rings out the window
Holy smokes that my heart is a flutter. Yeah, and it's nice to have to get burned by Kickstarter a few times
Oh, yeah to see that. So anyways
The system shock demo is out. I downloaded on my machine upstairs. I didn't have a little audio problems little audio glitch
I heard sounds, but they're still like this
Yeah, so not quite there
Their first stretch goal is 1.1 million. Okay, and they're 1 million right now. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you
Yeah, they don't make it super obvious cuz it's all like in that graphic
And I think I'll probably back him after the show just because I would probably buy that game on Steam anyways after it comes out
And if they're so damn close, I wouldn't mind pushing them over. Yeah, okay
So I'll cyber seal in the chat room says it is available on Steam as well for free
Oh nice sure you can get that speaking of something else you could try out for free that be digital ocean
In fact, if you use our promo code do unplugged all one word and that's lowercase
You can get a $10 credit over digital ocean comm simple cloud hosting provider
Dedicated to offering the most intuitive and easy way for you to spin up your own rig on their super badass infrastructure
SSDs top to bottom 40 gigabyte connections of the hypervisor
The hypervisor is KVM running on top of Linux already kick up. Oh son
Yeah, you can tell too like when you're downloading software
One of the other things they do that I just love is they have a private networking option that goes over their own internal networking
Doesn't count against your transfer. It's a great way to proxy connections to machines behind you
Or if you need to set up something to do like file storage, it's awesome
They have snapshots and backups that make taking point-in-time snapshots snapshots of your machine before you go cray-cray
Super easy the straightforward API makes that all super automatable, but let me tell you something girl that that interface
Oh that interface is nice
The way that they've been able to evolve it to and not add unnecessary complexity or buttons
It's really something the KDE project should look at go over use the promo code do unplugged
You'll get a $10 credit and in less than 55 seconds. You can get your own digital ocean rig spun up
They have Ubuntu LTS is of course infecting even when that's a non LTS release. They have the most current version in there
They got FreeBSD Fedora Debian core OS and sent OS core OS is a pretty awesome concept
Have you played around with it? I know you're a container guy. It's pretty cool
Yeah, but you just you're just a straight-up like LTS with Alex de you don't need no core OS, right?
I do think it's a pretty cool project. It is super cool
very interesting and I appreciate how much like
diversity and other tooling and kind of different take they've they brought to the Docker ecosystem and
Yeah with rocket. Yeah, and plus they're just super good. They're super super sound voices in that space
Yeah, they have a lot of good engineers bringing a lot of like
etcd is really cool
Yes, like a lot of really good software for distributed configurations that way and digital ocean
Which is really cool is they work right upstream with core OS
So that way you either they're in one of the release channels
They get official updates from core OS and by the way
They just launched their new block storage where you can attach up to 16 terabytes of SSD storage
whoa
Whoa do unplugged when you check out or actually what you do. It's not when you check out
It's in the account you go when you're doing your payment area
You just apply it and you get a $10 credit and you can run that you can run a rig for a while
Do unplugged and a big thank you to digital ocean for sponsoring the unplugged program
I want to do a little bit of follow-up because I realize not everyone watches Linux action show that watches this show and I've been
Getting a lot of tweets about this still or I'm not not not tweets emails. I wish I was getting tweets
She's Louise at Chris LAS telling you if if you don't hear from me an email you ping me on Twitter
You might get me
But just don't don't tweet me ask me to read your email
That never makes sense so this bug has bit me and I talked a little bit about it last week the update to 4.6
4 it drove you off of it was otherwise a fedora
Yeah, turns out there was a microcode bug in that package and because of that
The kernel update fails after after you do the update the microcode package fails to update and it doesn't boot
Major bummer and it's been it's been hitting people with sky like machines
So I just want to do a quick follow-up right here
I have linked to the show notes the fedora bug where they're tracking it
there is a kind of a workaround you could do if this particular issues hit you I've heard from a few people that where they
have and I
Said this on the show Wes and I just want to sort of double down on the statement here
But it's guy like has been a major disappointment for really has been you know
Especially since we've like we've talked about it
You hear a lot about just how good Intel is at working with the kernel supposedly, right?
But it seems to have been a major pain point, especially since it was kind of like it seemed like a an architecture
They were kind of excited for as a company and we've heard a lot about new sky like laptops and yeah
Yeah, and I remember when 1604 came out
They
They had that graphics flashing issue and it bit Michael Dominic and he ended up bailing into bailing from it
Oh, wow. Yeah, and that was sort of like I was a moment where I was like, okay
So there's one user lost but all right. All right. Okay. Sorry. Sorry Michael is really I promise
It's better next time you try it
I want to talk about something really quickly that I thought was an interesting development and I it really kind of came to my attention
When I saw a tweet this week that see do I have the tweet up here? Yeah, here it is
in
Other news your Chrome browsing data will soon be used for ad tailoring time to act surprised I guess and
This is something that you don't even really know about until you go into review your Google account settings
And I noticed Google was prompting me to review my account settings. I was like, why is it and I went in there?
I didn't see anything. It's not obvious. I didn't read the fine print, right? But if you read the fine print it says
When you use Google services like search in YouTube you generate data things like what you've searched for and videos you've watched you can find
And control that data in my account under the web and app activity setting with this change
This setting may also include browsing data from Chrome and activity from sites and apps that partner with Google
including those that show ads from Google which is a
I mean just that whole P apps the partner with Google that's probably apps that use the Google sign-in and apps that use advertising
Holy she's makes me wonder about like, you know, when will this present like a conflict of interest for like
Or like a big enterprise where suddenly I mean we already knew like everything you you know, you type in that little bar
It's getting sent to their servers, but yeah, I use Chrome at work and I can sort of security policies
That would be less than happy right? Yeah, you know, that's good point
I was sniffing around trying to get a sense of what it is that Chrome is sending back to Google that they will use for
Advertising this is probably not a complete list
But here's some of the things and I put these in the show notes that I came across
People who sign into Chrome then you are opted into this people who use opt-out services like use a web service to help resolve
Navigation errors use prediction service to help complete searches
You know that search thing that gets you using a prediction service to load pages more quickly automatically reporting details of possibly
Possible insecure pages to Google protecting your site and devices from dangerous sites
If you you know when you get that pop-up says the site might be dangerous
Automatically sending usage and crash reports to Google opting into all of those things
They will use that data based on they will use that data for advertising and this is so obvious
Right. I mean like yeah, I mean, I can't even I can't even I can't even vain that I'm surprised I can't but
It's so disappointing
It's so disappointing. It's so freaking disappointing and and what it shows you is
This was in this this was the end goal all along, right?
This is why they they launched a web browser to have a say in web standards and to do this thing exactly
This is why an advertising company creates a web browser
Yep
And I I kind of had a sense of what's going on because I noticed things that I had typed in Chrome were showing up in
My Google now cards, so I had a sense. Oh, yeah, absolutely. They were parsing that sometimes. It's nice
I'll say Google now has shown me some stories. I wanted to see oh for sure. Yeah
A but they're just not so public about it. What was that news?
Combined with this neat script that came out this week. I'm thinking about making a change
It's not a dramatic change. But one of the things has prevented me from trying out Vivaldi
We've talked to the developers on this show. I've done a quick take on it before
But at the end of the day Wes, I'm not gonna lie. I do like to be able to watch Netflix
I'm gonna start track to watch, you know, you nailed it
And so that's why I'm super excited about this new script that enables playback in Vivaldi and other
Chromium based web browsers including chromium itself
So this is super nice of all the project guy has managed to create a handy script that allow you to do this and I've linked
It in the show notes. I've tried it out. It does work. It's just it's a gist that you download
it's also in the AUR and one of the neat things about the AUR version is they have a
Vivaldi specific one and
Then they have a chromium specific one that works for Vivaldi and all of them and the Vivaldi specific one has less dependencies the
The chromium based one downloads like 150 megabytes of packages, which took forever on my Wi-Fi connection
But I'll tell you what at the end of it
I was able to watch Netflix in Vivaldi and I can install some of the same Chrome extensions that I kind of need to do
the the show notes
So hey, and you know what else in my limited use it felt like it loads faster
The other thing I like about it is it has better
Display of page loading like I have bar that has it tells you your transfer rate of how fast the web pages downloading
So like old web browsers used to and each tab has progress indicators
It feels a little faster, you know
And I did enjoy using I had it on my laptop for a while when we first talked about it
It's definitely not a bad browser and they've recently introduced something that I know you have bolted onto Chrome
in their latest version of the Vivaldi if I'm saying that right is
Tab hibernation. Yeah, definitely and I don't I don't reuse it myself
But my understanding of tab hibernation is that it has an ability to sense how long a tab has been inactive and once it reaches
that threshold it essentially
Pauses anything on that like it doesn't render that page anymore. It might yeah, you know
I don't know the exact implementations of the Vivaldi version
But the the great suspender is the extension I use in Chrome and yeah
It'll just basically changes the URL to the URL of the extension plus
The page you were on and then you click like so the extension basically takes over the tab
Using much less memory than you know
A full rendered dom page and all that and then you just give it a click and then it the extension then just reloads the page
That was there. So if there's any animation of any kind or anything that all passes, you know, it doesn't preserve state
It just preserves like where you what page it was what and that's good. I suppose if you had a lot of tabs
Yes, yeah, exactly or like, you know
Like you're doing some research for the show perhaps and there's a lot of times where it's like well
I have a whole stack of tabs and maybe I need ten of them right now
But I'm gonna do the next one
30 minutes later, especially if you're a laptop and so you're releasing probably way more than half the RAM each one of those tabs takes
At that point. Yeah, exactly. I mean I would did you know so when it does that does it also unload all of the extensions?
Cuz you know each
Instance of the extent question. Yes. I don't I don't know
Anyways, that's interesting and they've built it into Vivaldi
Yeah, which is kind of compelling from a from a laptop battery saving standpoint
So I think over the next week I'm gonna transition to that browser and see how it works for me
I have it loaded upstairs on my machine already. Awesome, and I did the chromium
Script that allowed me to install Netflix for all chromium based browsers looks like a pretty reasonable script here, too
Like it's I mean, it's only hundred lines long. You can easily parse it. Yes. It's not crazy
Yeah, it's not crazy and it's it was made by one of the team members to just enable it because this was a total thing
That they needed fixed on their browser and it seems like a pretty good like good that you know
They didn't just bake it into theirs and not share with the community. It's like that's kind of a nice guy thing
Yeah, so, you know what they do is they take chromium and they and they rebase off of chromium and in some cases they've done
They've walked this line of a it feels like they look at the Chrome extension market and they go
Well, those four things are a really good idea. Let's bake that in and I don't know exactly if they
Reimplemented or if they work with those authors or what but they've managed to do it in such a way that the UI still seems
very responsive the browser seems really responsive and
It's for me. It's easier to navigate than Chrome itself in terms of settings
So you click on the Vivaldi menu and you just have a traditional file edit view tools menu instead of a hamburger
and when you click on settings us you can change this it can be a tab but a
Separate dialogue with with hierarchical settings comes up that is much easier to navigate than in Chrome's huge long list of settings
Yeah, and you always have to click advanced to get the things you really want anyways
So the the that stuff they've managed to simplify that those experiences in Chrome
It appears to use less resources while giving me more information and automatically including some of the extensions
I want and now also I can play Netflix and it's in for me because Firefox just hasn't worked in the past
I'm thinking this could be a good potential. It is nice to it
I mean, even if it's not crazy different, you know a broader markets. Here's the other thing. I like Wes
You're right. It cuz and you know, did you hear the offer just go?
Here's the other thing I like West though is they have done a good job of outreach to the Linux community
You know, they've they've they've exchanged emails with this show
They have gone out of their way to like notify Linux news publications of things that are applicable to Linux users
So they seem to want the Linux user base too, which is I think a good sign
Yeah, we don't get that from a lot of people
Oh and a go-go also points out something that's kind of neat is it can interpret theme color the meta tag
And so depending on the page you're on the window
Chrome can change to match sort of like Chrome does on the Android
Yeah, right on the Android the Android version of Chrome does when you're on a web page
Like if you're on a green page the title bar turns green it all kind of matches or whatever
The volley does that as well the volley also has a dark theme right out of the box
Which I like a lot it starts with a light theme, but as a dark theme
so
My quick take on it is impressed from like the two hours
I played with it again this morning after it's been you know months and I
Think I'm gonna put it on all my machines for a while
I just don't I don't know what the sync situation is all that but I'll figure it out
I'll play with it and let you know so I want to shift gears for a moment
You guys know I got a I got to soapbox on the show and I almost have to avoid the show
I literally I swear guys. I promise you I try not to make this a topic every single week
but it is such an epidemic in the Linux ecosystem that I
Sometimes I just can't help myself
This Sunday I kind of got on or no it was last unplugged
I kind of caught I kind of got on SJV ends case for saying that Linux mint was the best desktop ever
You remember me I got into the best desktop ever I said it come on. Is that true?
Is that really the whole thing about what is best even yeah? Yeah, yeah
Is that a phrase that you can stand behind right and it and you know he said in 25 years the best Linux
I have reason that I took a look at it, and I said well
What about these issues and I laid them out on Sunday show and I would argue those don't those those issues
I raised do not make it the best Linux ever
It may be the best for certain work cases or certain scenarios or a very good option would be a reasonable way to put that
Totally so this next one really got my attention. It was published today
by
SJVN it's the best Linux laptop ever a buddy
Oh, yeah, that's right the XPS 13 is the best Linux laptop about ever make no mistake about it the
2016 Dell XPS 13 developer edition laptop is wonderful. It's fast the display is gorgeous, and it's less than three pounds
But oh that price tag. It's the best laptop ever Wes and then you know as somebody what do I got hey Wes?
Hey, Wes. What is this right here? What is this?
What what is this right why that looks like an XPS 13? Yeah this right here in my hands is the Dell XPS
That's the best lab Linux laptop. Let me tell you Wes. Let me tell you so wow
I don't I don't even need to be the one to tell you about it down
I think it's a fine laptop, and I don't I don't discourage anyone from picking one up
But I think about it all the time. I'll admit that right now
Here's the things that Stephen Jay himself says are an issue
But then still says it's the best Linux laptop ever so the display is great
I love it, but it's only 13 inches and
It is legitimately kind of small and cramped when you get a 4k version
It's almost unreadable, and there's an oddity that really makes it stand out
They stick the webcam down in the bottom left corner of the display
And he goes on to say it doesn't really matter that much it is all I've seen a lot of other people complain
I don't ever use it. I never use it. It looks so bad also like he admits here
it's limited to only 16 gigs of RAM now that might be fine absolutely for like a
A VI workflow or an aura or a max workflow if you're a job a dev or virtualization
You know you need to run different instances to test stuff
You need more than 16 gigs of RAM especially if you're getting that from work or something who will who's willing to pay for it
And you're just like well right that's the max doesn't disqualify it
But I think it raises the question does it make it the best
I think like you see those think pads that Noah's pine or other things where it might not be as pretty but
Here's the other thing does the absolute best Linux laptop for 2016
Ship with an OS that launched in 2014
Because it ships with Ubuntu 1404 now later on Dell plans to update it
But does 2016's best Linux laptop ship with a for 2014 OS
I don't think it does nope
I don't I don't think so if you went and got an intro where or you went and got a system 76 it would ship
With the absolute latest version also he mentioned that it ships with Thunderbolt 3 and DisplayPort and no HDMI or Ethernet
But he fails to mention the fact that the DisplayPort basically doesn't work and the Thunderbolt basically doesn't work either. Yeah, it's horrible
I in all of my time with it the DisplayPort's never worked correctly with maybe the here's the other problem
Here's the true problem to is the main display is 4k
But but when you hook it up to an external display X X does not handle that well
You can't have you can't have one screen be high DPI
4k and one screen being 19 by 1080 1080 and unless you've got the nice 4k monitors at home and in 1404
Specifically in Ubuntu 1404 specifically in some cases the DisplayPort doesn't work at all
It doesn't work out
So the version that ships with you have to be running a newer you have to be running the absolute latest
Hardware enabled entitlement kernel of Ubuntu 1404 to make this work, which Dell does ship
But it it literally then you're in another situation where it's like you want to build that. Yeah, right exactly
That's the problem and and then he goes on to say the touchpad sucks
Then he says the touchpad sucks
And then he added then to top it all off to top it all off. He mentions that the Windows 10 home version
Starts at seven hundred ninety nine dollars and this version starts at one thousand ninety nine dollars
So it's even more expensive for the similarly equipped Windows version, but yet, this is the best Linux laptop of 2016
and
And last week he declared that Linux Mint was the best Linux desktop of 2016
How can the best laptop not run the best OS?
That doesn't make sense
And like it's got security issues like this is a this is a legitimate problem
And here's here's what I'm talking about because here's a better example of a headline that was also published today
At opensource.com who I've given a hard time in the past a Red Hat employee Anderson over there did his review
Surprisingly just posted it today. I'm sure a total coincidence of his Dell XPS 13
And here's the title he went with get ready for this one
Hands-on with the Linux ready Dell XPS 13 developer edition
How about that that's way more
Like there's no like there's there's just there's nine-day difference between and he goes through and he does such a better review
He talks about he compares it to the ThinkPads. He compares it. Yeah, he seems like a must-read
He talks about trying to install Fedora 24 on there. I mean way better
And he does talk he does say it's a good well-built machine
And that it runs Fedora and Ubuntu virtually perfectly, which is you know, it's a good he says if you're a system administrator
Something like this is a great machine for you and I echo that if you you know, and I put mint 18 with cinnamon
And I turned on high DPI mode. I'm leaving it on there. It's so nice. Wow. I'm
I really liked it. So anyways, I really am getting sick of this. I'm right. I don't I don't have a particular point
I don't want to make a whole thing out of this. It's just this is an ongoing problem
That I feel like Linux journalism suffers from yes, and it's it's just it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's just
Suffers from yes, and it's just it feels makes it feel very bottom of the barrel
And I know we don't have like the biggest journalism community out there, but it makes it also very hard to find reasonable things
So it's like that second article. That's a great deep dive a real analysis from the headline
You can't just walk away with a TLDR point
You know what?
I mean like you have to you have to read it to understand it and two years from now
It would still be worthwhile. Whereas the first article it's kind of nothing and there's just so many like oh
It's the best of this year. Maybe kind of except for this but I'm still gonna call the best for your clicks
Yeah, and of course what they're really aiming for is those is those Google juice search. Oh, this is beautiful
Doesn't cinnamon look really good on the XPS there. Yes. I know
I mean, I would think this was 1080p except on a super super high-res screen, right?
Yeah, everything fits the fonts and text looks super great
You see you got to give a Clem credit
I mean that really is the one of the best out of the box high DPI once I check a box
It's when someone gonna make a linux mint spin that just enables the kernel updates and that's the only change
Well, you can still do it. Oh, yeah
But yeah
So anyways, I'm gonna keep that on there for a while because I think it really works well on the I'm excited to see what you
Think all right moving on you may have noticed a certain lack of poppy or wimpy this week
I secretly use oh, there he is
actually, I happen to know where they both are right now and
This is the reason why I think snap packages are going to be the dominant Universal installer this
You don't even know it. But this week is the week that snap packages one and
I know that PDV just just shipped in a flat pack. I know that just happened
but
What canonical is doing right now is going to push it over the edge. So let's break this down
Let's get into what's happening as we record this very show canonical is holding a snappy sprint event in Germany to ship up Universal snaps
Canonical announced soft PD and others about an upcoming event that aims to bring different developers together and contributors from various well-known projects to work together
On shaping up Universal snaps. Okay, interesting. But what does that mean?
Well, I happen to know what it means in practical sense
Is that mark shuttleworth and others made direct invites to members of the community from all over to bring them out?
and here's poppy on G plus talking about hitting the hitting out hitting the
The air and going out to the big event, but what's really been interesting is following wimpy's posts on Google Plus
so
wimpy posted at 1 a.m
Just finished the first cross distro session on day two of the snappy sprint sitting in the room our representatives from Debian
fedora arch Linux open Sousa
elementary and Ubuntu all working together to make sure snappy is well integrated into various distro CI systems and
Provides consistent experience everywhere
Which look at that fruit plate right?
Then another post from wimpy
Now this is the snappy sprint community team dinner
These are the people in the room that are not from Ubuntu have been invited to represent their distro or project around this table is
App stream folks arch Linux Debian elementary fedora open wrt open Sousa kde and of course him from mate
Behind the camera he got it
he got an invite from mark to come to make sure wow and then and the
The reason everybody's there is what they really want is they want a consistent experience
So they want just everybody kind of on the same page
So they brought people out to this to meet in person
Which is exactly when when the when this happened the flat pack folks like this isn't how you do it
You have to meet in person and talk right well look at this
And this is why I think this isn't this is how this is this is a way in which app images
Don't have the means or resources to compete flat packs
don't have the organization or corporate backing to compete like this and canonical does and
Look how fast they've moved on this
They've moved from announcing it to then making it all distro agnostic to now flying out key
Contributors and stakeholders to this event and wimpy was talking about another post how he's sitting next to Daniel from elementary OS
And they're checking out each other's betas of the latest OS sharing. You know stories and whatnot
It's pretty cool to have a forum like this where people can this is gonna push it over the edge
Yeah, I mean, I really think because you have
These these gatekeepers of their particular communities or software at this event all collaborating together and talking about how to deliver software
How could flat packs compete with this well, and I think it also kind of highlights
What?
Where where snaps really seem like they're gonna be playing like flat pack seems like they've spent a lot of time thinking about a lot
Of the underlying issues more related to the how package management works today
There's a lot of thought about like when you're building up a distro and you want to use this where snaps
It really seems like they're focused on like whatever you're running you're running Linux and you want this application
We are the thing to go for and if they bring in all this not all but they're bringing a fair number of stakeholders
I think there are still some issues like the CLA that kind of stuff, right?
But if they're at least you know, if it's good terms people are invited and it's like you don't have to support this
But let's all make it so that everyone wants to use it
Well, and if there ends up being free implementations of the backend
Which it has to be super straightforward the CLA may be less of an issue there too. Yeah
I I guess so it's the same reason why I think
steam and valve
Could have only have worked with Ubuntu
they're in a they're in a unique position where they're flexible and nimble enough to act extremely fast and
they
You know apparently, you know mark says let's do this and then they just do it this this came together very quickly
They announced it on July 5th. And now here we are on
It's been going for two or three days. But as we record this that is a quick turnaround. Yeah, so they're really they're moving fast
And I just meanwhile the flat pack folks just got a name
yep, and it is interesting too because I mean as we've seen for the past few years a bunch of have been kind of the
People where it's like as much as we have a Linux platform
They're it right. So it's a nice to at least to see them kind of fulfilling that role or trying to even if not
Everyone wants them to be that role not everyone wants them to be what it is
Right, but when people when you have an app that's package for Linux eight out of ten times
It's it's packaged for a bunch you so if that becomes for snaps and it runs everywhere just already when you said that
You know what else it made me think of is thank God. They're actually
Doing something like they announced Ubuntu for Android and Ubuntu TV and nothing happened and they didn't do anything with it
And you know, it wasn't a position where they had a lot of leverage
now when you see them in a position where they have some leverage they really do act and they're acting quickly and
You know who cares if it does if it does if you don't want to use it
You don't have to but it's super nice that they're they're actually working with their outreaching
They're working with open Sousa and arch and others. They're trying to do the right thing
Yeah, they also just recently announced snappy playpen a place to test learn and create snaps and share best practices
And it with a big focus on desktop applications including in here is MPV shot
Well, SMP player a buntu clock app
YouTube DL VLC a VLC VLC developers are also at the years. There's if there's several other ones
Hopefully when the guys get back those the next week
Yeah, I don't really like to know how it went who they got to talk to and if they have a sense of where adoption
Is that I know I'm really curious to see how the representatives from the other distributions what they're feeling what?
Yeah, yeah, and also are to the people who go say from Sousa
Did they become?
Sort of outliers in their local community when I come back. Are they traitors?
Are they different do they have to come back and become an advocate and advocate to the other Sousa people?
This is a technology that's worth adopting even though it's from the evil evil horrible canonical boy
that seems like an interesting position to be in and
Well, and I don't really see anybody here. Okay, one last thing. We'll move off of this
Nice run the other thing we'll move right off. This is
Nobody's reporting on this soft PD had the announcement about the event taking place
But the here is an example of canonical in my estimation
Coming up with an idea outreaching directly to community members
Flipping the bill to to fly them out have a venue
Organize all of this mark shallow worth himself is at least in the case of one of these that I know of calling them up
Directly and saying hey, I would like you to be there
This to me feels very much like a company that works with the community and yet it in this kind of stuff
We are literally the only outlet reporting on it. I will say
Might have people might have been happier if they had done this before they had that announcement
Right, right. Yeah, maybe this is a maybe this is kind of what would the interest be there if they had done it like this?
That's a very good point. Yeah, I mean, you know as they say no press is bad press. Well in
people you once now that
This conference when you get there
There's a huge there the call a huge part of the conversation has already had been happened and you already run packages
How can they be used?
What are examples of software that could be packaged up the snaps all of that's already been answered by the time they all get to?
The Sprint so you could argue the execution you might be right though
I think the fedora folks would say so right sure because now you could have that press release gonna be like, yeah
Look, they did it. It's on the up-and-up. Yeah, I wonder and I wonder possibly
I think land rash also agrees with you. It looks like so
Yeah, I either way I think it's really great
They're doing it and I think it's also interesting that it's the kind of things that does there's the kind of thing that doesn't
Get reporting and I think in part that might have been because canonical didn't really outreach too much press
Yeah, right
They didn't they didn't tell us and they they told soft PD that it was happening
But there's like they didn't invite any press to be there at the event to cover it to relay what happened
And I think that's maybe a shame because one of the things maybe it's
You know, maybe it's just like one of those, you know work sprints where they're trying to write is done
Yeah, I want to do the press yet. I know I think that's exactly what it is
Yeah, I know I know but see what the problem is is then that's a we just threw it over the wall now here it
Is instead of covering it in the when they're actually doing the nitty-gritty community aspect of it
Especially that like you might not even have to focus on the like the outcomes just kind of focusing on the like cross
Distribution hand-reaching that kind of stuff would be really interesting. That's the story. Yeah, exactly. That's the story what happens
I mean, you can already run it on a lot of these anyway
You know the flat packs or app images may win out in the end or nor nor nothing or just tar files with hardlink libraries
That'd be but it's the future
But the real story is is that this company is calling up these stakeholders of these different distributions and bringing them out
That's the story that's not getting reported on I think and it's it goes it
Would play directly against the narrative that not the not invented here narrative that's constantly thrown in canonical space
I just I just don't think they're quite savvy enough because they're so busy actually trying to do it
yeah, they're not thinking about the the the PR spinner as
Politics would say the optics of how it all goes down, but good for them for doing it either way. Absolutely good for them
All right. I want to mention ting real quick before we go much further into the show
That's my mobile service provider and it's mobile that makes sense because you only pay for what you're using
There's no contract or no early termination fee go to linux.com to get our special promo
You get $25 off a device Heyo or $25 in credit if you bring a ting device
Which you might because they've got two networks GSM and CDMA
Which means there's a lot to choose from huge number of devices and really who doesn't have a device now that you can pop a?
Sim card into they just had a great sale on those SIM cards, too
But now you can pick them up for nine bucks. And again, there's no contract you activated and you just use what you need
They have a really good dashboard to manage all of this and you get to talk to a real human being
Whenever you need to they also
Have one of the best deals on
like just straight like if you need something for like notifications and messaging like a
if you want like a like an alarm system or
Like a I was actually thinking before I mentioned this like a hardware temperature monitoring device and like your data center
You want to we have we have one we're thinking about building out for the garage here at the studio
This is one of the best deals
Yep
Because it's only six dollars for the line and they just you can't they you cannot beat this because it's so it's only six dollars
The line and then you just pay for the text messages that you use and it's really easy to manage all of it
You could even put caps and say all right
Well, if it goes above a thousand text messages cut it off and you can use it
You can do that in their web or their apps. They just I also just really consider that too for automated systems
They just really have one of the best deals out there for that
They have a savings calculator where you can plug all of that in there. Check out their devices page for some of their great devices
I love the Nexus devices on there and they're also constantly posting tips up on their site
Check them out go to linux.ting.com a series that I've been kind of following too is the different cable cutting
It's so cool. How interested they are. You can tell that a lot of people are
cord cutters
they're they're living the the online life and they also have a post on here about learning what they what like what
Customer service lessons they've learned since they launched fiber internet, which is kind of interesting. That is very interesting fiber internet, man
Whoo ting ting. I need you to bring it here. Here's what you got to do
Go to linux.ting.com try out that savings calculator. It's how how would what would you save?
That's what it says right you click that click that put your deets in there
Who put up a dupes see what you would save. That's your litmus test if you pass like me
I save like two thousand dollars a year. I mean every two years. I said about a thousand dollars a year. That's nice
Hey, that's a brand new best Linux laptop
Ha ha ha ha yeah sure is ha ha ha ha also businesses like if you got 10
To like 20 employees something like that. Yeah, there's actually for those like you want someone to have a phone
They don't really need it, but you want them great for some family members, too. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I really like it
Also another reason I love ting is I have a I have an old old LG tablet that has a SIM slot in it
Oh nice and
Every now and then it's nice just to have another machine with a data connection
And so I have a ting sim in there and I can turn it on and off right there in the drop-down menu from my notifications
And I activate it and I get a different data connection and six dollars. You just don't feel bad about six dollars
It's a sandwich, you know, it's great
It was really great ting's a great service a great company backed by two cows as well check them out Linux that ting calm
That's where you got to go to support this show and get the discount a big thanks to ting for sponsoring the unplugged program
um Linux dot ting comm so last week I talked about my desperate need for a VPN to avoid an upstream proxy that
Not only was spying all of my HTTP and HTTPS traffic
But also just adding unacceptable amounts of latency to my web browsing session
You're an impatient man. You need that you need those, you know sure and you know my DNS now
Nothing is more frustrating
honestly where it hits me the worst is when I'm in Google Maps and I'm in satellite mode and I'm like moving around in the
tiles and
It's so slow to load each
Title and they load in like an old like when you used to look at porn back in the 90s on the internet and you
Had to wait for the JPEGs to download, right?
Just like that
So I had to find a VPN to just essentially route around this not even just for the privacy
Although that was an element of it
But to basically get around this proxy server and see if it actually made a difference in my web speed
So we talked about this last week and if you guys want to know more about it
Check it out by listening to episode 153 of the unplugged program. So I I think I'm not
Gonna make I'm not gonna claim. This is my final solution, but this
Damn, this is working. Well for me. This is working. So damn. Well the performance way better the ease of setup
Mind-blowingly simple and I got a couple of recommendations. So I'm gonna talk about air VPN today. I
I I may end up and we'll talk more about this in a moment doing a open VPN solution on my own server
but I'll talk about that in a moment first, I want to talk about air VPN and
It's a VPN based on open VPN and it's operated by activists and hacktivists in defense of net neutrality
privacy and against censorship
Okay, that kind of gets my that sort of piques my interest a couple of other things. I like about it
not only not only did I
Not only they get a lot of good recommendations from the audience
I got people who emailed in said I've been using air VPN for a while
I really think you should check them out. I got people who tweeted me said a air VPN is great
They seem to really support Linux the they also apparently accept Bitcoin for payment
Which is kind of neat when you're setting up for a VPN provider and you want to really stay more anonymous
They also allow you to log into their service anonymously
Which is which is really nice and they support just every damn near device out there. And of course, like I said open VPN
They have unlimited and free
Transfer from work for what I have. I have no maximum speed limit and
Really, I really like it. So here's one of the other things that really thought I thought was super slick
And again, I haven't shopped a lot for VPN services. So maybe this is kind of common, but I thought this was pretty neat here
You they have an open VPN configuration generator. So you tell them what OS you want?
So you choose your operating system and I'm so I choose Linux here
And then they tell you to pick your server and they break it down at first by region
Which includes a lot of the servers in that region and you can they give you the capacity of the regions right here?
But what what's even nicer for me is because I'm specifically trying to find the fastest route around my proxy
I'm not really trying to
Hide my traffic
I'm not trying to you just pretend like I'm in Europe to upstream. Mm-hmm
You can actually break it down by individual servers individual countries
So here's Canada, of course, Switzerland France United Kingdom right here
and then as I scroll down the list you find the United States and all the different servers in the United States and of course
For me, it was just a matter of now either picking a couple of these which I could so I could pick this one in
Miami this one in Georgia if I wanted to and this one in Los Angeles and it will include all of those in my open
VPN script it's about to generate for me. I have a couple other options. I accept the terms of service and then I simply generate it
It downloads the script for me and then you just go into gnome
You have to have open VPN gnome network manager installed, but you just go in there and import the script say, okay
You connect using network manager and your VPN and it's great. I was connected within 10 seconds. Wow
And there's other sites that out there that help generate open VPN configs for you
But the way they bundled this in there was really nice the way they tie in the server status
You can pick and choose and see what the current transfer rate is for the whole server. How many users are connected?
I think all of that stuff is really nice geeky stuff. Then they also give you ways to do speed testing on those
So yeah, I was about to ask about that. Yeah speed testings nights, especially if you can yes rake up something
We're like, well, especially you know, you've got you've got those
Yeah, you're roving around all over the place
You once you get connected you come back to the air VPN sites air VPN org speed test and then you can you can speed
Test your connect which is just great did
So not only am I able to try out a whole bunch of different servers to figure out what region is best for me
But I actually be able to test them and the air VPN guys
they are and gals seem like they're really straightforward folks that make it easy to be anonymous if you want to and
Have full-fledged Linux support and I like that they promote the fact that it's open VPN, too
They don't try to hide it as some sort of black magic
They're proud that they're using open VPN and that appealed to me as well as they're transparent with that
So that was sort of my temporary solution
To see if this actually solved my problem
Before I went in and built a server that I was gonna manage and be responsible for and read a tutorial and all that stuff
I wanted to see if this actually would solve my problem
It absolutely did and if the performance is better than that the net Eliza results come back and no longer complain about proxy issues
Yeah, so now the next question is is am I gonna implement this at a network level and am I gonna host my own?
So the first question the network level one
I'm not so sure about the cradle point that I have and I got tweeted saying hey which model cradle point you have I can't
Remember at the moment
But if I dug through the settings, I don't see built-in VPN support
So I would probably have to set up a Linux box
Somewhere on this somewhere on the edge or just which is it was in the RV is not a super great option right now
But I might eventually go there anyway, so it's a possibility
but what I'm really struggling with is is
Is this the type of thing that is that is valuable enough and fragile enough that I should probably be hosting it myself
And this is the this is the age-old problem that I constantly can't keep running into is do I take advantage of an easy?
Solution that allows me a lot of flexibility. I can try testing all different locations. It gives me tools. They give me scripts
Do I go they have their own staff right and they have support if you need it?
Or is it time to go spin up a droplet install Ubuntu or or something like that sent to us?
Whatever free BSD, of course, and then probably even a one-click open VPN thing
Maybe so maybe so and I know this is not a new new question, but it's one that I'm now once again
Facing I'm just sitting here. Oh crap now now that I know this does fix it
What do I do next and I know you kind of had a same similar thing this week
You've been messing around with command-line accounting software for a while. Yes
I have and that's sort of progressing into well now what do I do? Do I self host this? Where you at with that?
Yeah, I mean, it's the same thing, you know, it's like I have I have less time
But at the same time I do have the ability right like I know how to run a server
I know how to set up a Linux machine. So I do have the ability and it's it's one of those
You know, where where do the trade-off why why and and so like a lot of people have used mint or other things?
You need a budget as a popular one, right? And you know, you want to understand your money little cash
yeah, but there's a lot of tools out there where it's like
It really depends on seems like it depends on how much flexibility you need and how much you trust cuz like I've enjoyed mint
But now I'm in a little more of a complicated situation where you know, I've got some business accounts
I've got my wife and I we don't share our last name. So it's a little bit different
We have different accounts that aren't even shared and I'd like to manage all of that
Through one but I might have some like custom stuff. I'd also like
Access to some more of the data like what if I want to kind of compute some of my own metrics on there
Mint doesn't make it that make it that easy. No export data or you know, so it it really I struggle with that too
Because it's like well, I'm also very busy. I have I have a job doing similar things already, right?
So it's like I don't have time every night to do
Administration to get good deployment practices after all after you do this all day long
Is that what you want to do when you go home? Yeah, sometimes it is sometimes it is and sometimes it's like it's totally worth it
And I mean, I love playing with I love playing with digital ocean. I love setting things up
I love that feeling of like yes
I made it work and it's mine and there are some times where you like you set it up and it just works and you
Forget about it. You have the sense. I you know this I can trust this that's super nice, especially when it's your accounting data
Yes, right and so it may depend on you know, how how personal is it?
How how private is it and how much you know, there are some things and you know, I've done both in the VPN case
I do pay for a VPN service provider, but I also do sometimes throw out use a digital ocean one
so
You know, maybe there's room for both
No
Dude, should we should we not gloss over the fact that you have opted to do command-line accounting? Yeah, maybe not
so tell me about this West because I
Thought about this in two ways first. I thought
Well, that's just freaking crazy
That's just cuz you know, like I'm thinking about like how you really like when you're trying to reconcile or something like that
that just sounds crazy, but then I thought back to the to the
late 90s early 2000s when I was migrating users off of DOS and
I was moving them over to Windows and
About a year into it the bank that I was moving them at
they decided
That it would be better and faster for the end users that if they just kept using the old DOS
program the old mainframe interface that they were using
inside a window in Windows NT instead of using the GUI version because and this is a bank because the entering of
transactions and all of that was faster in the command-line version for the staff than the GUI was and
So I guess it's not totally crazy because I watched a whole user base switch to a GUI and then switch back to a text
Very interesting. So what do you like about it? I guess I like that
It's a little more we use this phrase all the time, but like a little more Unix philosophy where you know
I understand text. I work with text all the time. Text is what a universal interface is what they say and
There there is a certain amount of tedium to it
Right like mint lets you roll a lot of this like it'll just do it and it just filters it
But like in particular like one of the ones I use here is ledger, right and and you know
A lot of people talk about how tedious is it is and it can be
And it kind of depends on what you want to do, you know
Like mint does a pretty good job of of classifying things ledger can do that too. It has some built-in like a little bit of
Learning to try to classify things. There's also an import from your bank. So there's actually a really cool
Python project called auto ledger auto sync which does I've got it working with several different banks
it pulls it in you can set like how far back you want to pull it in and
I've actually got it down to like what I think is a pretty reasonable workflow and it depends on what you want to do
I think at the base level I just really appreciate like one, you know
I have a math background but not an accounting background
So it's been kind of fun to learn a little bit more about double-entry accounting and understanding how how this works
Especially as someone who wants to you know, I want to make sure I do my finances, right?
I want to be up and up on that
So it's kind of helpful to be able to play with that a little bit in a safe environment where I'm not
There's not so much going on. Like I it's especially you're talking like, you know
Can you cash some of these other environments or if you've used like QuickBooks or stuff like some of these software?
They're very complicated. There's a lot you can do and and you know, I do have a small business, but it's like I
I don't I'm not an enterprise. I don't I don't have a ton of needs
But what I really want to do is understand
Where my money comes from and where it goes and I don't even you know
You might not even need a huge breakdown of that but just being able to easily see like for different time periods
What's my how my balance? What's my cash flow, you know?
So is the process for you now when you need to do that?
Do you SSH into a remote box that you've set up and that's actually that's the next part in mind
I've been running it locally. I just will
It's like a just a database you back up a file. Is it file based? How's it work? Yes, it's file base
It's okay. It's a flat text file nice and you can kind of figure out which files it. Well, I really like that, right?
So it's really easy to pack up you can throw now
I can I can worry about encryption for the file but to have my important data and text, you know
I always envision that that bunker scenario where the the entire infrastructure has come down and I'm tunneling in with my
Flashlight and my shovel and I'm gonna rescue the data off that hard drive through a cheroot
And if I can just read that data and not have to reinstall a program to get access to the data
That's a huge win for me
So I've really enjoyed this auto sync because it will do the job of just grabbing
Each little transaction and then I can just go in and kind of correct it and and I have it set up in a way
Where you will where you can have like you have your main
file of your transactions or you can even split it up like this is this month or this is this year and then you make
A new file and you can kind of consolidate that to like what was the net for that, you know
That year at the end of it and then a lot of it's just like it provides a nice like once a weekend or you can
Do whatever frequency you want obviously, but you know, I just go through I grab it grabs like the last week of transactions from my bank
Accounts credit cards etc. I can it provides a great opportunity for me to just go look through that
Make sure there's not any anomalous charges
Most of the time it gets a lot of it right and then I can kind of just go through and be like, oh, yeah
Well this store I know that's grocery
It takes a half hour maybe 45 minutes and at the end everything's accounted for you can run lots of commands
it's very flexible in terms of reporting and
Then one that I've been I'd like to I'm playing with switching is H ledger, which is a half scale
Reimplantation. Yeah, that's great. It comes with like it has a CLI interface. It has
More of like a curses style interface. It has a web interface that has some graphs
Or a web interface, huh? Yeah, and so one of the other things I liked is like we at work
We use a lot of graphite or Grafana and other graphing solutions
And so I really like the idea like a huge thing for me is just understanding like this month
Do I have more money coming in than going out? And and what does that look like?
What is the slope of that graph? How does it change week by week?
And so the fact that I can just take this I can set up a cron job that just runs one ledger command that outputs
My balance or my you know, like my net transfers for the month spits that into Grafana or whatever tool you want
And then you can graph it however you need or you can throw it into a Google Drive document
Yeah, whatever you're able to use some of the same flexibility and tools you use for work to manage your finances
which is really kind of great so H ledger a simple precise plain text accounting and
That's sort of the perfect do-it-yourself hosted solution and I don't know where I'm at. So that seems like an obvious line. Okay, that's
That's something I'm gonna self host mm-hmm a VPN because I think here's why here's where I'm leaning
with my decision if I were using the VPN solely for the purposes of
Hiding what I'm doing online and
Keeping what I want to do private or even possibly getting into another country to get access to content
That's restricted right in that scenario too because I don't want to violate terms of service. I think I would self host
I think it unquestionably would be obvious. I should self host but in this scenario
my
Priorities I'd say my top three are
Find the fastest route around a proxy server. Yep. I
Think and the second one would probably be
Flexibility to choose different locations based on where I'm at in the RV
so if I travel to a different state I might need a
Different VPN endpoint and then I think my third one would be ease of use, right?
I was trying to decide if that's number two, but I think it's third one's ease of use and
It seems like air VPN is the better tool for those top three requirements
Because they have tons of servers for me to choose from
Which and do is great because they have a lot of things or similar companies
But not the same number of if I'm gonna build my own digital ocean droplet and run VPN
I'm probably only gonna build it on one droplet now you were talking about a way
I could potentially bounce it around to different droplets like the entire setup. Do you remember what that was?
I mean, there's lots of neat scripts, but I think that's kind of the power of do is if you were gonna do it
It might be nice to
Use the API just like to have like a template. Yes, right
I think that's what it was like a templates the template thing and I would ping the API and say spring spin this template up
On the on the New York data center server because I'm closer to that server now exactly
and and then when I'm back on the west coast, I'd ping the API and but see to me that seems like
The downside to that is what I would lose out on is any kind of small modifications
I'd made between the that time and the last time I'd done the template and with air VPN
I just go in there choose my server download the new config and load it people that manage that and here's the other thing is
I what I had I've already done this is I have different regions now
I have a folder just called air VPN in my home directory
With each different regions servers that I can just connect to really quick and try and it doesn't require I do any other setup
I just have the file sitting there
I just and I have them all in I have three of them imported right now and I really like that
So I feel like that might be a better solution and I feel like they're a pretty solid company
I do I do wonder. Yeah, it does seem and you know
And there's a lot to be said about exporting the support export, you know all that stuff
Do they have other they have non open VP obviously open VPN script VPN, you know, that's a great question
I didn't look yeah, you're right. Some people want that native exact sex support iOS has an Android can do it
There's some SSH tunnel based ones that are really slick. I think they're only open VPN based
Yeah, as far as I can tell but I might be wrong cuz I only I wanted open VPN, right?
I mean open VPN is great. There's apps for whatever platform. So yeah, like it's a huge problem
the other thing that's really nice is I was able to set up apps on other on other like
Devices and whatnot. Look at this. They have top 10 users on your top 10 speed all that
So I really like how transparent they are with all of this because I can look at this and go
All right
Well, I'll connect to this server that only that has half the users and exact that's nice
That's really transparent. Of course, then again if I'd rolled my own it just be I'd be the only user
Yeah, so there's that too
Anybody in the mumble room have thoughts on VPN solutions or or my particular particular mint or West's accounting stuff before we move on?
Or even like how do you you know as someone who might be skilled like you can run it yourself
How do you decide if the trade-offs the effort is worth, you know, not impinging your freedom or whatever. That's a lot of questions, but
Everybody has thoughts because you guys haven't you guys haven't had a chance to jump in
How Al terrace is how do you describe something that runs by activists as a company? I
Don't know. They maybe they're not a company
They take my money and provide a service and they seem to be good at doing that right that way. Yeah, that's a good point
Yeah, so it's air VPN a company or to donate or it's not a donation. No, it's not a donation
And I think they have a VAT ID so they must be I'm clicking on a rope
That takes me nowhere, but they do have a VAT ID. So they're and they're including taxes in there. So
You tell me that's nice. You tell me I could go there
because here's here's the other thing is
I
Thought about attempting to go the whole route and totally anonymous because they allow anonymous login
They allow Bitcoin payments that I could send through a tumbler and then I thought about it just to really test that but you know
What I the thing is is if I'm being completely honest with you
Security is not high on my list in this use case because my alternative is to send everything
I'm doing through a proxy server that's literally interrupting my it's it's man and mentally my HTTPS connections
So and then adding a super cookie to all my traffic
So like the the upgrade in security for me is it's pretty yeah
So an another question that might be relevant here is like what about did they have do they let you have forwarded ports?
Yeah, there's a couple of options in there where you can do that
It does not a lot of options, but you can also you know again you get a private IP to that obviously
Hmm, I didn't check you're less anonymous in that regard. You're not sharing a server. Yeah, but that's one thing
I know some people wait for yeah. Yeah, I didn't check to see if they'd let you do that
But one of the things in the setup is that is the portfolio. So I was just reading here
They say it's operated exclusively by activists privacy data protection and security issue aware persons
law experts with the help of same lawyers and
Counts more than 80 servers with high bandwidth lines and good top hardware and 15 data centers across 16 countries in three continents
I'm picking up English is not the main language
They have a great infrastructure. They saying customer service is not an ever been outsourced or to provide high quality of support
There you go. I I'll keep playing around with it
I tell you what it came from some from some people I respect in our community, too
And that made me feel really good, too
It's definitely was recommended to me by some people that know their stuff
But I'll keep playing around that and then eventually I might break down and just roll my own
I'll tell you what the tipping point would be is
Probably if I'm combining with another solution like a network-wide persistent VPN and when I'm ready to step up to like a persistent VPN
They don't fire up when I need it that might be when I go self hosted on do
Right now I I have a very unique setup because I can't just replace my router with a pf sense box like the chat rooms
Like right just do pf sense. That's easy. The issue there is
well, unless anybody if anybody has experience with the air card line of my fi devices and
Hooking that over USB with pf sense
And that works shit. Let me know. That would be awesome. Maybe I'll just replace the cradle point with that
But then and then if I go with a persistent one, I think that's one
That's where I would draw the line mama room any other thoughts before we move on
We do have one more thing. We actually gonna get to today, but you you guys have the last word
Yeah, I wanted to clarify so you have one server and you can download
Certificates and then you can jump countries according to your needs because you can be connected to one server only at a time
Right. Yes, essentially you you could you could have multiple setups, too
So you could have like your US server config file and your other country config file
And then you would just have two different VPN entries in network manager, and you would just choose whichever one you wanted for that
It's not really cool
It is nice. Yeah, I thought they I mean who knows maybe maybe it's a it's an mi6 operation for all I know
But I thought I thought I liked the way they the way they set it up and I thought was worth checking out
But you know
Well, I think really one of the things that I always consider whenever I'm thinking about self hosting versus going with somebody who's obviously an expert
And passionate about it is how well do I know the subject how prepared am I to maintain a box?
It's its infrastructure its security all of that all the responsibilities that come with that and I think that's something that
Probably Linux Academy could help with right next academy.com slash unplugged go learn the essentials and the advanced topics around
Linux so that way when you implement systems like this you do it correctly and it's funny too because it's really the small small stuff
it's the little things that add up and
Really the key to good security is having as many of your eyes dotted and your t's crossed and really
Understanding what you're working with understanding the best practices. See that's it right there. Like you really can't like
As two people who've like taught themselves a lot of things you can learn how to do things, right?
But it's hard to trade that experience with someone was like I do this day in day out every day and I need systems to
Be secure and they can just show you like the little mistakes that you're making. That's the things you haven't thought of honestly
there's I had a very private humble pie moment in my career because I got so far into my career being self-taught and
Then I started playing the corporate game of wanting to get good reviews and promotions and started going to get training and they you know
Of course, there was training budgets and why aren't you using this training budget? We make this training budget available
Okay, I'll go spend your money
and so I went to school and I went took a course by a man named Grant Williams at Edmonds Community College
shout out to grant who sometimes listens and
Learned that there was lots of little tiny things that I never really I just blew right past I just you know
I'm a touch you there's so much. Yeah, it's not that it's not that I was dumb
It's not that I couldn't figure it out or look it up
It's that I never really was presented with a particular need and so therefore I never quite got that
Aspect of it and so going through and doing the things that you had to do in a class
Really sort of opened up my eyes and showed me that okay
There was a couple of things I've missed but by being self-taught and now I can add these tools to my toolset
That was extremely valuable and it's it's genuinely like that for just about every damn topic
If you think about it and Linux Academy covers them all from AWS of the entire Linux stack open stack even Azure and DevOps
Linux Academy comm slash unplugged go check them out get our discount and support the show by visiting that URL
Interact with a community stack full of Jupiter broadcasting members and take advantage of instructor mentoring whenever you need it
And why not go browse that brand new website?
Even if you're not ready to sign up Linux Academy comm slash unplugged go visit that and check out the new site
Thanks Linux Academy. Alright, so I I'll I don't want to go too far in this without bringing in the mumble room
Cuz this is sort of the segment. I wanted to give them a chance to shine
However, I got to ask you. I
Don't think I actually know the answer this question either. I was just trying to think if I knew what you were gonna say
Do you
Today
Use the Linux desktop
for idealistic reasons or for purely pragmatic practical reasons
Today it is that different than when you first tried Linux. I
Think I've kind of come full circle
You know, I grew up kind of playing with Windows
I remember trying to change the like Windows boot screen and breaking the family computer for a while that kind of thing and you quickly
figure out like what you can and what you cannot change with Windows and so like started out as this like
Wonderful playground and like I knew what open source was
I thought it was cool because I kind of like started trying to program but it was it didn't mean a lot
I couldn't really use it to do any you know what I mean?
Like I mean I could do a lot and I loved all this software, but it was like
This is just fun this and let me like really deep dive and I think somewhere in the middle there. I
Really stuck around because I mean at some point I started going to school and like well
I mean Linux was very important for that
You know, you can write a paper on just about any operating system
So I think it really the the idle ideology it really did
It really did sink in you know, and you know, it made me maybe want to try more distributions
It made me want to try to you know, you can play with 3BSD or something else
Look at the little different ideology, but I think today I
Don't think there's another platform where I could get what I need to get done
Like there's definitely both parts like both parts are very important. I think the ideology is
It's important. I think freedom is important
I think open source is important
But it's also just I need it
I need an operating system that is malleable and where I can change things and like the ideology definitely informs that but at some day
Be it as long as it is free. I think I can make it work, you know
Okay. All right. So let's let's bounce to the mumble room and I'll give you my thoughts. So BC I'll let you go first
Uh, well, do you use it today for ideal idealistic or practical reasons? And is that how you started using Linux? Yeah
The first time I installed Linux it was like 15 years ago
Yes coming directly from Windows. I started just wanted to check out what exactly it is
Right now as I use Linux full-time. I'm just much more productive with it
However, it's not just productive because I try to use as little closed software as possible
so
In reality both. Yeah, it is an interesting thing there too because you can kind of reach a limit where you're like
well, I want to be free and then sometimes you hit that area where you're like, well
My operating system is free, but this application is proprietary and I need it
Yeah, I use Windows for some things for example game development. I use
KVM with GPU pass-through
unfortunately
Yeah, okay. All right good and it sounds kind of like sort of a similar similar situation uber panda. I want to hear your thoughts
Yes, I started using
Linux because of battery life reasons my laptop and Windows lasted like one hour
And I just started using option X and it lasted for two and a half hours. So I
Ha ha and
Then I understood what what was free software that kind of thing
So it became an ideology and now I think free software is good and Windows is also a terrible operating system
So I use Linux for both reasons
Yeah, interesting. I love it. I think that's pretty I think that actually makes a lot of sense now. Okay, mr. Heaven
So it sounds like you've been around the block a couple of times including over to the free BSD camp and then ended back on
Linux so is that for idealism or is that because just made more sense practically speaking?
Well, the reason why I went or at least let's say
During my first bit of open source
adventures, of course, I like the technical things so I went on to a you know
Adventure and benchmarking a whole bunch of file systems. I found XFS while I was on Linux and I loved it
The thing is my philosophy is closer to the BSD philosophy versus the Linux one
So I actually went over to desktop BSD and whatever that other one was and free BSD
Thing is the XFS port wasn't up to stuff. It wasn't up-to-date enough. So even though I love free SP's
philosophy of
True freedom it allows you to keep secrets
If you want a Linux pretty much prevents you from keeping secrets if you you know
Regardless if you want to or not other in the LG PL
So I went back to Linux because of XFS because all of my storage was XMS
It didn't like free BSD didn't actually, you know provide what I needed. So that's was stable. That's a practical
That'd be a practical reason there. Yeah, that is actually a practical reason, you know, it's slightly philosophical. Yeah. Oh, man, that's so interesting
alright many MC your
practical or
Idealism for your initial adoption of Linux and where you're at today
So I wanted to know something new I started with Linux 2 say 6 1
I just wanted to see something new and all missing stuff was really hard to replace and then
From time to time it became a feature. So now Linux changed my whole workflow
So it stripped me down to the basics much faster much clearer in my book flow than I was before I guess
Interesting. Yeah, I know
what's been interesting for me just on the workflow part is
I've had the opportunity now of moving a couple of different types of workflows onto Linux started as just moving like desktop
Microsoft workflow like the office and outlook basic getting that running on Linux doing and doing interacting with Windows file shares and that
Workflow was a major workflow and I it took me a while
I mean it took me a while to make that more efficient under Linux right to be able to justify
Running Microsoft applications on our links, but I got there
I eventually got there and then I moved I went as a consultant
I had to move that workflow onto Linux when I did IT consulting for a while and then
You know just here at Jupiter broadcasting
There have been so many workflows that are sort of they start with the Mac
And then I was like I have to move this to Linux and definitely one of the biggest ones for me was my unfilter
Clip editing and workflow because that just it started out as such a Mac centric
just a couple of tools that I just hated using and it just was a mess and
moving that over to the Linux and finding that to be and
In being able to then use all of my you know
My my traditional Linux skills
on the command line and be able to take advantage of things like quake and be able to take advantage of things like avid mux and
Being able to install codecs that you know by just a command away, right?
It made it very practical in that case to move that workflow over there
So that work full element and be and just because I have a better workflow
Sometimes is it is enough of a reason it's and more options and how you make them. Yeah
So rotten I wanted to hear your practical or idealism
Well, I started as practicality thing because I was a beta tester for Windows 7 for about a year before it was released and
And when it was when it came to the point where they were about to release it
They said all beta testers now had to pay for it
So and it wasn't like, you know, you had a certain amount of time to pay for it. They stopped your Windows 7. Oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, that's right
Yeah, so it was completely like just stripped away from me and they gave me I think like a week ahead of time
You're going to lose the access to you run the system that you've been working for free to fix bugs and and you know
find problems that we've we've
obviously have not finished fixing yet Wow, and
Then it to the point where I was just like, you know what out of spite screw it and I was already dual booting at
the time, but then I just kind of like just wiped it and went to the Linux way and
Been there the whole time and now it's become both
I didn't really know what the ideology was at the time
Exactly, right? Yeah, it's hard to pick up on now. Yeah. Yeah
So now it's more like the I the ideology made me stay in the practicality made me come over
That's a good way to put it land rash. I wanted to hear your
Ideology versus practicality where you started where you ended up
Probably started in school with well using it when I needed to from course and stuff
Going over to practicality when I got used to it and basically getting the only way I could do things was with Linux because I needed
The tools I had the tools I needed there. I'm going to win. So like shoot myself in the foot and doing it ten times slower
I think we've all been there. Yeah, isn't he's finding that schools pretty cool. Okay, mr. Ranger. How about yourself?
Yeah, I I'm another one that I started out practical because you know back in the late 90s early 2000s
Worked at a computer shop where we needed easy internet sharing and IP chains was where it was at nice
Um, we similar to your banking story. We had a point-of-sale system that
Was crashy and the networking on it was horrible and oddly enough. The perfect solution was run to run it in DOS box
And even to this day just a few months ago
was an officiant of my sister's wedding and I needed some random government form and I was trying to figure out how to
modify this the way that I needed and
The scribes was you know one command line install away so I'd say practically
You know Linux is so easy to get software for and so easy to find software that does, you know
Whatever task you need that day. So for me way practical cool
I think that's an interesting thread like in what what Swift 110 here is is commenting like it's interesting how I
Mean practical so different like there's a lot of like enterprise cases or like, you know
If you're a creative type where it's less practical because the tools you need are proprietary and expensive
But there's a lot of other cases where the ideology of freely available makes for these
If you're if you're underprivileged if you just you don't know you're out of budget for the quarter
And you really have a problem that you want to get solved
Free software is there for you. Yeah. Yeah, it really is. I
Think I'm gonna touch on that when I all share mine here at the end
But I I'm glad ww wants to share his to go ahead ww with yours. So I started back in red hat
5.1 in 96 97. Yeah
We didn't have I didn't have lunch back then I looked in the desert
So I was lucky enough to have friends that were into Linux and into ham radios
And you can walk into a software cetera and buy
Mandrake Linux or whatever or if you weren't lucky enough
You can have an independent ISP and order limits online and get it
And so I think I should have been on it longer
I should have been on it before since Windows 3.1 because I always like to get
Dig into the system and figure out how it's running and when it's doing and how to change it or how to move it around
So for me practically
It's been something that I've been striving to be to be more on even though I've been
Someone that dual boots and still uses Windows for what I really need to do
It's ultimately where I hope I end up is more on Linux and I'm not sure about the idea
Ideological side. I like to be more pragmatic
So for me
It's more of a practical reason to be on Linux and that makes more sense in the long term than being stuck on a closed
system that you will never
Be able to open and openly use a way you believe it should be used. Yeah, so long term for me, I think
It's gonna be practical bit
maybe once I I get a chance to
Read more into the ideological stuff. It will be both for me right now. It's all more of a practical reason
You know
I think what I'm what I'm really picking up and it echoes mine is you sometimes you come at it from
What's feels like a very practical reason and then you get there and you discover the philosophy
so I'll tell you you know mine really started as
a need to solve a
limitation of Windows Windows just simply at the time Windows NT 4 was not good enough for the job
I needed it to do and so I had to find another solution started very practical
I and you would I think particularly for me if you if you watch it if you watch the back catalog of the Linux action show
with this in mind, you can see where I switch from a pragmatist to more of an idealist and
Now I'm on Linux simply because I can't stand to use any other platform I couldn't I couldn't imagine having to use
Windows as my daily driver. I don't know what I would do
so I you could claim that's practical, but I think really I'm here now for the idealism and I'll tell you
If for me, it took a while for it to sink in mostly because there were so many problems
I needed to solve and it didn't really hit me
until I started thinking about it in the way that affected my own bottom line and then then it clicked and it was really in
the sense of
My clients kept getting screwed over by companies like Microsoft and many other proprietary companies that would just
Extort them for support contracts that were unbelievable and that would change and drop features at
At a moment's notice and completely leave them off on this old version
That was no longer supported for a decade because the next version up completely
uplifted their workflow and what I what I
Discovered over time both in a sense of software and hardware and in contracts is that vendor lock-in can be
Paralyzing for a company sometimes and so that was in which the lens that I first looked at
the advantages that open that a core open source infrastructure gives you the kind of
visibility into the long-term viability or even the emergency eject lever of
Forking and maintaining it by hiring your own developer really interesting business case for like you get a lot of freedom
It's huge because I can tell you you can deploy your infrastructure on this and worst case scenario if they stop making this thing
You can go hire a developer and that
Developer can continue the thing because all of the code is completely free and open source and for an enterprise
That's not a crazy proposition if you already have developers prop or they can yes
Yes, and if it's a core piece of their business that makes them money
They they like having that flexibility and so is with that
Perspective that looking at open source the way that it would solve that problem that I realized. Oh
Shit, this is the killer feature. It's it's not the great package management. It's not the stability. It's not the security
It's not the transparency. It's not all of the incredible minds that are and diverse opinions that are contributing to this. It's this
fundamental open license this GPL that is the actual killer feature of this platform and
What it took me a while to get there, but is now it is based upon that which I look at everything else
I I you can't have a practical Linux desktop experience without the idealist without that
GPL without that idealism that led to the GPL and the GNU stack
You can't have the full practical Linux desktop with which is a sensible reason that we're all using it
Wouldn't exist without that and so it was once I once I sort of made that sort of transition that revelation
I realized oh, I'm actually I'm actually an idealist and
when I make decisions based on that in the long run those always tend to be the ones that pay out and
The one when I make a decision that's not oriented towards that it tends to screw me eventually
And that has been that has bared out in my personal life for stuff
I just use myself and it's bared out my professional life with my clients and whatnot and you know
I'm very very very very very proud of the fact that I can go back to almost any of my clients at any of the
Linux and open source solutions that I implemented are still maintainable and supportable today
It's awesome and I cannot write our solutions cannot work that way cannot do that
it's literally not possible because aging them out is part of the process and
Locking you into their support path because that's where they make all of their money in the enterprise is part of the process
And so it took that kind of that particular doorway in which I saw it then it really sort of lit up for me
But my it was very mad these two are you know, like I feel like a lot of people
It's that that that pragmatism especially if you're I feel like networking is a huge part
We're like, you know my internet gateway and I feel like it actually that's a more solid foundation
Because if you're just in it for the idealism
Then that idealism is gonna last you as long until you want to watch something on Netflix or you're gonna watch a TV show
I mean, where do you draw the line at that point? Do you do you abandon all all?
Proprietary lockdown media all together cuz you that's kind of pretty hard and maybe you do and maybe that works for you
But to me it seems like that eventually after a certain amount of time
Unless you're freaking Richard Stallman himself
You're gonna give that damn eventually is gonna break and then what do you have if all you have is the idealism, right?
If there's not the pragmatic thing, you're also grounded with I
Feels like it's not quite as strong as a grip. You can't get anything done. Then what's the point? Yeah
Yeah, so it's a fascinating topic and it's a there's a couple it popped up a couple of times on reddit
In the last couple of days and so we thought we'd ask it here in the show and I'd like to hear your stories to
Linux action show dot reddit.com. Please go with that great forum. Yeah, and episode 154
We'll have a feedback thread in there and or you can always join us and chat with us in our mumble room
Just go over to jblive.tv once you get the embedded chat room or irc.geekshed.net pound Jupiter broadcasting do bang mumble
I know I'm all speaking mumbo-jumbo to some of you do bang mumble
And then you'll get the server information
I don't know what that means then just ask in the friendly IRC if you don't know what that means
Well, we don't we make it available for watching this. Yeah. Yes, that's true. You still have some homework to do
Also, thank you to our patrons over at patreon.com slash today
Not only do you help us stay independent and support the whole network
But you're also getting exclusive live posts of the shows the whole live stream
Absolutely everything even the stuff that didn't make it into the unplugged. I know I know so watch out with watch out patreon.com slash today
Thanks everybody who supports us there Jupiter broadcasting comm slash calendar is where you go to find out when this show is gonna be
Live get it converted to your local time zone
We do have that virtual lug you can hang out in and join us and Jupiter broadcasting comm slash
Contact is where you go to give us emails send them in through there
We have robots that deliver them to the correct inbox or even better tweet us. I'm at Chris LAS. What about you?
I'm at West Paine. Oh check that out. How about that? All right, everybody
Thanks so much for tuning this week's episode of the unplugged program, and we'll see you right back here next week
Oh
Well, there we go now that was a lot of show but we've been having some long ones recently some long one
What's going on with your screen over there? Oh, there's just a smudge on it
Oh, I thought maybe you spilled some beer
We've been we've been haunted by that before JB titles calm. Thank you mama room. You guys are great
We had someone so we had such good participation in that last segment you guys
That was I had to write the names down and if everybody did so I could keep note of who had pinged me in the chat
Room with mom. I just wrote them all down and went through one by one. So thank you guys
We need some sort of software for that we do hmm JB titles
Just a note you can call me mini Mac like Mexico mini Mac or like like a mini not so
mini Mac like the Mac mini
No, not like the Mac mini like mini Mac. It's it's French like little guy
Like a Mac like a Mac warrior
Like a Mac warrior or Mexico or a McDonald's sandwich mini Mac. Okay, I got it
I don't like
Surprise surprise. Oh, yes
Idealistic Linux desktop practical VPN package sharing ideas and practices Linux pragmatic idealism. That's interesting
JB titles JB titles now y'all gotta go bang suggest or else you'll be eliminated. What I
Didn't nothing. No, just just have the pill. Don't worry about the color of the pill. Just enjoy just a sugar pill trust
We bought it for you. Yes. I know it burns just swallow. All right, man unfilter is gonna be so packed tomorrow
It's gonna be crazy. Yeah, I it really it really is
It really is Matt and I have been working on it every single day
So I'm not kidding you not exaggerating I got off the air I didn't even finish putting the show tags in we didn't
We didn't pop the up the episode wasn't even finished editing and I was already collecting clips for the next episode
I I don't think I was off-air for 15 minutes
From the last week's unfilter before I started working on tomorrow's unfilter. Yeah, it's show is out of control
It's nuts. It's nuts
I'm gonna have to just go big picture on something. It's just so much to cover that it would be a three-hour show. I
Don't know. All right. It's something I have to pick and choose you do and then that's that's sort of dark in some ways
Cuz some of the stuff I have to choose not to talk about I don't know. It's right and you're not saying it's not important
Yeah, yeah. Yeah
So here's what's floating up Linux pragmatic idealism Oh snap, where's wimpy and poppy that's clever I idealistic Linux desktop
rotten's rotten past
Aha packet practical VPN package sharing ideas and practice. I do like Linux pragmatic idealism. Mm-hmm. Oh
Whoa, that was a good one. I was surprised. That's my first one. I know this has been super buzzy a bubbly beer
I'm really surprised the VPN of things. That's cute. Ww
But you know what I'm talking about when I say like I think this is what's gonna push snap packages over the edge is
app image and
flat packs and what's the other one this
The other one like app image there's orbitals and what's the other one there's one more oh, yeah, I'm blank
Yeah, Ben that Jon Stewart skit and on Stephen Colbert skit have you seen that hmm what that was crazy that was
Amazing that was so funny. I was I literally was laughing. I don't I don't do that at the TV
I was cackling laughing out loud at the spit tank stuff like that
Yep, and what's so great is it would it would admit what amazes me that it managed to be funny when there was like a 30
Second built like, you know, it's coming, you know, it's coming and it's still happens and you still laugh and it's those two together
Are they just they have the timing they've inherently mapped each other's timing so well. Yep. It's just wow, man
Like one weird person
JB titles JB titles every titles. So should we go with Linux pragmatic idealism? Should we do that?
I mean people seem to like it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mm-hmm
I'm looking forward to some Linux in like should be there should be possessive. No Linux is pragmatic idealism
Hmm. There's also just pragmatic idealism somewhere down there
Well, that's not bad that one but
You know the WWF WWF sex beat me to it. But yeah Linux unplugged is already Linux in the title
Right. Yeah Linux unplugged. So you could just go with pragmatic idealism. I like the way you guys think
Linux community snaps together. Oh
So, where's the shorter one where's that at
It's North Ranger pragmatic idealism by North Ranger. Yep. Alright, so yeah, it's already it's already got five boats by the time I got to it
Yeah, I Stephen Colbert coming out as Colbert right that you do you know, you knew they were gonna have to eventually do that
Yeah, I mean, it's just too good. Hey, yeah, it's it's great. It's great
You're gonna have an opening dance numbers and stuff into the show. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Well, I got him. He technically gave up on the pronunciation of his name because originally it was Colbert versus Colbert
Right character in himself, right? He's like nah, screw it. It's Colbert everywhere. Yeah, and he's like
Yeah
That's fine. I think it's been interesting to watch him sort of ease into just let like when he first started doing the the night
The tonight show what's it called? It's not called the anyway, so the late show we first started doing the late show
I think he was very awkwardly trying to totally not be that character
And now as he's been then doing it for a while and the elections are here
He's letting more of that old character and and it does seem to be playing well to the audience
Because I think there's like you can have a little of that and still be a different show. Yeah. Yeah. Well and plus it's
When you're on the CBS versus the Comedy Central, it's it's a totally different you could I mean
I think you I could think you could reuse a lot of that stuff and it's it's such a huge newer audience that I
Wouldn't blame them
Alright, so I we're gonna we're gonna go with so so I'm gonna refresh the bolts here
Let's see pragmatic idealism is almost number one now. So I think that's that's rocket away up there. So go with that
We'll go with it. All right. Thank you. Mr. Ranger. Thank you and
Ww yeah, yeah tip my hat to him. All right. Thank you everyone. Oh you guys, you know what else?
Thanks to the audience. Oh my that audio data. Thanks audience. Oh my gosh. All right